docs/searching/percolate_query.rst, before:

.. _percolate_query:

Percolate query
---------------
.. note::
   This is a newly added feature. Possible changes may occur in future updates.
   
The percolate query is used to match documents against queries stored in a index. It is also called "search in reverse" as it works opposite than a regular search where  documents are stored and queries are issues against the index.

The queries are stored in a special RealTime index and they can be added,deleted and listed using INSERT/DELETE/SELECT statements in a similar way as documents in a regular index.

Checking  if a document  matches any of the predefined criteria is made with the ``CALL PQ`` function , which returns a list of the matched queries.
Note that it does not add the documents in the percolate index. You still need to use another index on which you will insert the documents for performing regular searches.

.. _percolate_query_tags:

Tags
----

Query might have ``tags``. ``tags`` set for query with ``INSERT`` statement. Later user might list query with specific ``tags`` with ``SELECT`` statement
or delete query(es) with ``DELETE`` statement.

.. _percolate_query_filters:

Filters
-------

Query might have ``filters``. ``filters`` set for query with ``INSERT`` statement. Documents might be filtered with ``filters`` with ``CALL PQ`` statement.

.. _percolate_query_index:

Index
-----

Percolate query work only for ``percolate`` index :ref:`type <type>`. Its configuration is similar to :ref:`Real-time index <real-time_indexes>`
however declaration of fields and attributes might been omitted, in that case index created with default field ``text`` and attribute ``gid``.

.. code-block:: ini


    index pq
    {
        type = percolate
        path = path/index_name
        min_infix_len   = 4
    }

    
.. _percolate_query_insert:

INSERT
------

To store query ``INSERT`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    INSERT INTO index_name (query, tags, filters) VALUES ( 'full text query terms', 'tags', 'filters' );
    INSERT INTO index_name (query) VALUES ( 'full text query terms');
    INSERT INTO index_name VALUES ( 'full text query terms', 'tags');
    INSERT INTO index_name VALUES ( 'full text query terms');

    
where ``tags`` and ``filters`` are optional fields. In case no schema declared for ``INSERT`` statement 1st field will be full-text ``query``
and optional 2nd field will be ``tags``.
``filters`` is a string and has same format as ``SphinxQL`` :ref:`WHERE <select_where>` clause.

.. _percolate_query_call:

CALL PQ
-------

To issue documents matching ``CALL PQ`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    CALL PQ ('index_name', 'single document', 0 as docs, 1 as docs_json, 0 as verbose);
    CALL PQ ('index_name', ('multiple documents', 'go this way') );

    
Document at ``CALL PQ`` might be ``JSON`` encoded string or raw string. Fields and attributes mapping allowed at ``JSON`` document only.

.. code-block:: sql


    CALL PQ ('pq', (
    '{"title":"header text", "body":"post context", "timestamp":11 }',
    '{"title":"short post", "counter":7 }'
    ) );

    
``CALL PQ`` might have multiple options set value as ``option_name``.

There is default values for options:

-  docs_json - 1 (enabled), to treat document(s) as ``JSON`` encoded string or raw string otherwise
-  docs - 0 (disabled), to provide per query documents matched at result set
-  verbose - 0 (disabled), to provide extended info on matching at :ref:`SHOW META <percolate_query_show_meta>`



.. _percolate_query_list:

List stored queries
-------------------

To list stored queries at index ``SELECT`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    SELECT * FROM index_name;
    SELECT * FROM index_name WHERE tags='tags list';

    
In case ``tags`` provided query will be shown if any ``tags`` from ``SELECT`` statement found at stored query.
``SELECT`` supports of ``count(*)`` and ``count(*) alias`` to select list of percolate query. Any values just got ignored there however ``count(*)``
should provide total amount of queries stored.

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> select count(*) c from pq;
    +------+
    | c    |
    +------+
    |    3 |
    +------+

    
.. _percolate_query_delete:

Delete query
------------

To delete stored query(es) at index ``DELETE`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    DELETE FROM index_name WHERE id=1;
    DELETE FROM index_name WHERE tags='tags list';

    
In case ``tags`` provided query will be deleted if any ``tags`` from ``DELETE`` statement found at stored query.

.. _percolate_query_show_meta:

Meta
----

Meta information keep for documents on matching call and might be retrieved with ``SHOW META`` call.

``SHOW META`` output after ``CALL PQ`` looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    +-------------------------+-----------+
    | Name                    | Value     |
    +-------------------------+-----------+
    | Total                   | 0.010 sec |
    | Queries matched         | 950       |
    | Document matches        | 1500      |
    | Total queries stored    | 1000      |
    | Term only queries       | 998       |
    +-------------------------+-----------+

    
With entries: 
 
-  Total - document(s) matching total time seconds 
-  Queries matched - how many stored queries matches document(s)
-  Document matches - how many times documents matches stored queries
-  Total queries stored - how many queries stored at index
-  Term only queries - how many queries are with terms. The rest of queries are with extended query syntax

.. _percolate_query_reconfigure:

Reconfigure
-----------

``ALTER RECONFIGURE`` command is also supported for percolate query index. It allows to reconfigure ``percolate`` index on the fly without delete
and repopulate index with queries back.

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> desc pq1;
    +-------+--------+
    | Field | Type   |
    +-------+--------+
    | id    | bigint |
    | text  | field  |
    | body  | field  |
    | k     | uint   |
    +-------+--------+

    mysql> select * from pq1;
    +------+-------+------+-------------+
    | UID  | Query | Tags | Filters     |
    +------+-------+------+-------------+
    |    1 | test  |      |  k=4        |
    |    2 | test  |      |  k IN (4,6) |
    |    3 | test  |      |             |
    +------+-------+------+-------------+

    
Add `JSON` attribute to index config ``rt_attr_json = json_data`` then issue ``ALTER RECONFIGURE``

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> desc pq1;
    +-----------+--------+
    | Field     | Type   |
    +-----------+--------+
    | id        | bigint |
    | text      | field  |
    | body      | field  |
    | k         | uint   |
    | json_data | json   |
    +-----------+--------+

Commit message:

updated documentation for PQ; added uid filter to list queries

docs/searching/percolate_query.rst, after:

.. _percolate_query:

Percolate query
---------------
.. note::
   This is a newly added feature. Possible changes may occur in future updates.
   
The percolate query is used to match documents against queries stored in a index. It is also called "search in reverse" as it works opposite than a regular search where  documents are stored and queries are issues against the index.

The queries are stored in a special RealTime index and they can be added,deleted and listed using INSERT/DELETE/SELECT statements in a similar way as documents in a regular index.

Checking  if a document  matches any of the predefined criteria is made with the ``CALL PQ`` function , which returns a list of the matched queries.
Note that it does not add the documents in the percolate index. You still need to use another index on which you will insert the documents for performing regular searches.

.. _percolate_query_tags:

Tags
~~~~

Query might have ``tags``. ``tags`` set for query with ``INSERT`` statement. Later user might list query with specific ``tags`` with ``SELECT`` statement
or delete query(es) with ``DELETE`` statement.

.. _percolate_query_filters:

Filters
~~~~~~~

Query might have ``filters``. ``filters`` set for query with ``INSERT`` statement. Documents might be filtered with ``filters`` with ``CALL PQ`` statement.

.. _percolate_query_index:

Index
~~~~~

Percolate query work only for ``percolate`` index :ref:`type <type>`. Its configuration is similar to :ref:`Real-time index <real-time_indexes>`
however declaration of fields and attributes might been omitted, in that case index created with default field ``text`` and attribute ``gid``.

.. code-block:: ini


    index pq
    {
        type = percolate
        path = path/index_name
        min_infix_len   = 4
    }

    
.. _percolate_query_insert:

INSERT
~~~~~~

To store query ``INSERT`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    INSERT INTO index_name (query, tags, filters) VALUES ( 'full text query terms', 'tags', 'filters' );
    INSERT INTO index_name (query) VALUES ( 'full text query terms');
    INSERT INTO index_name VALUES ( 'full text query terms', 'tags');
    INSERT INTO index_name VALUES ( 'full text query terms');

    
where ``tags`` and ``filters`` are optional fields. In case no schema declared for ``INSERT`` statement 1st field will be full-text ``query``
and optional 2nd field will be ``tags``.
``filters`` is a string and has same format as ``SphinxQL`` :ref:`WHERE <select_where>` clause.

.. _percolate_query_call:

CALL PQ
~~~~~~~

To issue documents matching ``CALL PQ`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    CALL PQ ('index_name', 'single document', 0 as docs, 1 as docs_json, 0 as verbose);
    CALL PQ ('index_name', ('multiple documents', 'go this way') );

    
Document at ``CALL PQ`` might be ``JSON`` encoded string or raw string. Fields and attributes mapping allowed at ``JSON`` document only.

.. code-block:: sql


    CALL PQ ('pq', (
    '{"title":"header text", "body":"post context", "timestamp":11 }',
    '{"title":"short post", "counter":7 }'
    ) );

    
``CALL PQ`` might have multiple options set value as ``option_name``.

There is default values for options:

-  docs_json - 1 (enabled), to treat document(s) as ``JSON`` encoded string or raw string otherwise
-  docs - 0 (disabled), to provide per query documents matched at result set
-  verbose - 0 (disabled), to provide extended info on matching at :ref:`SHOW META <percolate_query_show_meta>`



.. _percolate_query_list:

List stored queries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To list stored queries at index ``SELECT`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    SELECT * FROM index_name;
    SELECT * FROM index_name WHERE tags='tags list';
    SELECT * FROM index_name WHERE uid IN (11,35,101);

    
In case ``tags`` provided query will be shown if any ``tags`` from ``SELECT`` statement found at stored query. In case ``uid`` provided range or
value list filter will be used to filter out stored queries.

``SELECT`` supports of ``count(*)`` and ``count(*) alias`` to select list of percolate query. Any values just got ignored there however ``count(*)``
should provide total amount of queries stored.

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> select count(*) c from pq;
    +------+
    | c    |
    +------+
    |    3 |
    +------+

    
.. _percolate_query_delete:

Delete query
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To delete stored query(es) at index ``DELETE`` statement looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    DELETE FROM index_name WHERE id=1;
    DELETE FROM index_name WHERE tags='tags list';

    
In case ``tags`` provided query will be deleted if any ``tags`` from ``DELETE`` statement found at stored query.

.. _percolate_query_show_meta:

Meta
~~~~

Meta information keep for documents on matching call and might be retrieved with ``SHOW META`` call.

``SHOW META`` output after ``CALL PQ`` looks like

.. code-block:: sql


    +-------------------------+-----------+
    | Name                    | Value     |
    +-------------------------+-----------+
    | Total                   | 0.010 sec |
    | Queries matched         | 950       |
    | Document matches        | 1500      |
    | Total queries stored    | 1000      |
    | Term only queries       | 998       |
    +-------------------------+-----------+

    
With entries: 
 
-  Total - document(s) matching total time seconds 
-  Queries matched - how many stored queries matches document(s)
-  Document matches - how many times documents matches stored queries
-  Total queries stored - how many queries stored at index
-  Term only queries - how many queries are with terms. The rest of queries are with extended query syntax

.. _percolate_query_reconfigure:

Reconfigure
~~~~~~~~~~~

``ALTER RECONFIGURE`` command is also supported for percolate query index. It allows to reconfigure ``percolate`` index on the fly without delete
and repopulate index with queries back.

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> desc pq1;
    +-------+--------+
    | Field | Type   |
    +-------+--------+
    | id    | bigint |
    | text  | field  |
    | body  | field  |
    | k     | uint   |
    +-------+--------+

    mysql> select * from pq1;
    +------+-------+------+-------------+
    | UID  | Query | Tags | Filters     |
    +------+-------+------+-------------+
    |    1 | test  |      |  k=4        |
    |    2 | test  |      |  k IN (4,6) |
    |    3 | test  |      |             |
    +------+-------+------+-------------+

    
Add `JSON` attribute to index config ``rt_attr_json = json_data`` then issue ``ALTER RECONFIGURE``

.. code-block:: sql


    mysql> desc pq1;
    +-----------+--------+
    | Field     | Type   |
    +-----------+--------+
    | id        | bigint |
    | text      | field  |
    | body      | field  |
    | k         | uint   |
    | json_data | json   |
    +-----------+--------+
